Conclusion to the Course
================
Rina Deka
2023-07-24

## what your current thoughts are in terms of using R for data science - do you think you’ll continue to use R going forward? Why or why not?

Absolutely! I kind of think in R more than I think in python, even
though I use python much more than I do R. However, R is a
statistician’s must-have language and really useful for plotting and
various packages that are pretty well-documented (such as the BAS
package if you’re a Bayesian).

## what things are you going to do differently in practice now that you’ve had this course?

Documentation, documentation, documentation! This course for sure has
helped me in my actual work and I’ve learned how important it is to
create code that is readable with good documentation so that it’s usable
for collaborators. This is especially the case for things related to
Github and Gitlab (or anything git related). I’m also learning how to
debug code more carefully as a result now, so issues are a little easier
to resolve. This course has definitely helped me think more systemically
with how I write and communicate my code. I also plan on utilizing
github a lot more now that I’m using it more than I have in any other
work situation.

## what areas of statistics/data science are you thinking about exploring further?

The areas of statistics/data science that I’m thinking about exploring
further currently is actually functional data analysis! We talked a
little bit in this course about PCA (which is an unsupervised learning
technique), and recently at work I discovered the concept of functional
PCA which is a method for investigating the dominant modes of variation
in functional data. For FPCA, we’re still concerned about dimension
reduction, except instead of dealing with vectors, we are dealing with
[functions](https://towardsdatascience.com/functional-principal-component-analysis-and-functional-data-91d21261ab7f).
Thus, the principal components will also be functions (ie, curves). This
is really useful for some projects I’m doing for spectral signature
detection. I’m also interested in exploring Hierarchical modelling and
am currently doing a lot of things with Gaussian processes, which is a
Bayesian method that’s kind of a “hot topic” in statistical learning;
although rarely covered in classes about statistical (machine/deep)
learning.
